## pg_restore

#### pg_restore is a powerful recovery tool in PostgreSQL, specifically designed to restore data and objects from a database backup created by the pg_dump utility. This command only works with backups in the custom, directory, and tar formats. It cannot restore backups in plain-text format, which are typically created using the -Fp option with pg_dump.

#### pg_restore can handle numerous scenarios, such as:

#### 1. Restoring a full database backup
#### 2. Selectively recovering specific database objects (tables, indexes, functions, etc.)
#### 3. Remapping database object names or owners
#### 4. Restoring to a different database server

### Using pg_restore

#### The basic usage of pg_restore is as follows:
```
pg_restore [options] [backup_file]
```

#### Here’s an example of restoring a full database backup:
```
pg_restore -U username -W -h host -p port -Ft -C -d dbname backup_file.tar
```

#### In this example:
`
-U specifies the user to connect as.
-W prompts for the password.
-h and -p specify the host and port, respectively.
-Ft indicates the file format (t for tar).
-C creates a new database before performing the restore.
-d specifies the target database.
`

### Selective Restore

#### pg_restore allows you to selectively restore specific database objects. You need to use the -L option followed by the list of desired objects.

#### To generate a list of objects in a backup file, use the -l option:
```
pg_restore -l backup_file.tar > object_list.txt
```

#### Edit the object_list.txt file to keep only the objects you’d like to restore, and then use the following command:
```
pg_restore -U username -W -h host -p port -Ft -d dbname -L object_list.txt backup_file.tar
```

### Remapping Object Names and Owners

#### pg_restore can also remap object names and owners using the --tablespace-mapping, --role-mapping, and other options. For more information, consult the official PostgreSQL documentation.


