## Check pgBackRest

### Why should you monitor pgBackRest?

#### Monitoring pgBackRest helps ensure that your PostgreSQL backups are consistent, up-to-date, and free from any potential issues. By regularly checking your backups, you’ll be able to maintain a reliable and efficient backup-restore process for your PostgreSQL database.

### How to check pgBackRest?

#### pgBackRest provides a built-in command called check which performs various checks to validate your repository and configuration settings. The command is executed as follows:
```
pgbackrest --stanza=<stanza_name> check
```

`<stanza_name>` should be replaced with the name of the stanza for which you want to verify the repository and configuration settings.

### What does the check command do?

#### When you run check pgBackRest, it performs the following tasks:

#### 1. Configuration validation: It verifies if the configuration file (pgbackrest.conf) contains valid settings and if the runtime parameters are properly set.

#### 2. Backup consistency: It checks the consistency of backup files within the stanza, ensuring that there are no missing or incomplete backups.

#### 3. Archive validation: It examines the state of WAL archive files, ensuring that they are present and retrievable as per the minimum and maximum settings specified in the configuration.

#### 4. Remote connectivity: If any remote repositories are configured, it checks the connectivity to remote hosts and verifies that the repository paths are accessible.
