## Configuration Files

### PostgreSQL has the following primary configuration files, which are usually located in the postgresql.conf or pg_hba.conf file:

#### `postgresql.conf`: This file contains various settings that control the general behavior and configuration of the PostgreSQL server.
#### `pg_hba.conf`: This file is responsible for managing client authentication, which includes specifying the rules for how clients can connect to the database instance and the authentication methods used.

### 1. postgresql.conf

#### The postgresql.conf file is where you configure the primary settings for your PostgreSQL server. Some common settings to configure include:

#### `- listen_addresses`: This setting defines the IP addresses the server listens to. Set it to `*` to listen on all available IP addresses, or specify a list of IP addresses separated by commas.

#### - `port`: This setting determines the TCP port number the server listens on.

#### - `max_connections`: Sets the maximum number of concurrent connections allowed. Consider the resources available on your server when configuring this setting.

#### - `shared_buffers`: This setting adjusts the amount of memory allocated for shared buffers, which impacts caching performance. Usually, you should allocate about 25% of your system memory to shared buffers.

#### - `work_mem`: Specifies the amount of memory used for sorting and hash operations. Be cautious when increasing this value, as it may cause higher memory usage for heavy workloads.

### 2. pg_hba.conf

#### The pg_hba.conf file is responsible for managing client authentication. Administrate the settings in this file to ensure that only authorized users can connect to the database. This file consists of records in the following format:
```
TYPE  DATABASE  USER  ADDRESS  METHOD
```

#### - TYPE: Defines the type of connection, either local (Unix-domain socket) or host (TCP/IP).
#### - DATABASE: Specifies the target database. You can use all to target all databases or list specific ones.
#### - USER: Specifies the target user or group. Use all to match any user, or specify a particular user or group.
#### - ADDRESS: For host, this is the client’s IP address or CIDR-address range. Leave empty for local type.
#### - METHOD: Defines the authentication method, such as trust (no authentication), md5 (password), or cert (SSL certificate).

## MUCH ON THIS FILE WILL BE COVERED LATER