### PostgreSQL provides configuration settings for generating essential logging statistics on query and system performance.

### - log_duration

#### log_duration is a configuration parameter that, when set to on, logs the duration of each completed SQL statement. The duration will be reported in the log lines alongside the executed statement. This parameter can be very useful to find long-running queries impacting database performance negatively.
```sql
log_duration = on
```
### - log_statement_stats

### When log_statement_stats is set to on, PostgreSQL will log the cumulative statistics of each SQL statement. These statistics include the number of rows processed, block read and hit information, and the system’s usage information such as CPU and I/O times.
```sql
log_statement_stats = on
```
### - log_parser_stats, log_planner_stats, and log_executor_stats

#### These parameters enable more detailed logging of each statement’s parser, planner, and executor stages, respectively. These values can be useful for profiling and identifying potential bottlenecks during query execution.
```sql
log_parser_stats = on
log_planner_stats = on
log_executor_stats = on
```
### - log_lock_waits

#### Setting log_lock_waits to on will log information about any sessions that encounter lock waits while executing statements. A lock wait occurs when a session is waiting for a lock held by another session. This information can be useful to diagnose potential locking issues causing performance degradation.
```sql
log_lock_waits = on
```
### - log_temp_files

#### log_temp_files is a configuration parameter that logs the use of temporary files. PostgreSQL might use temporary files when it needs to store intermediate data (for example, during the sorting operations). When set to a positive number, PostgreSQL will log any temporary file creation whose size is greater than or equal to the specified number of kilobytes.
```sql
log_temp_files = 1024  # Log temp files >= 1MB
```

## Note: Enabling some of these options can generate a significant amount of log output, potentially affecting database performance. It is recommended to enable them during development or testing environments or enable them temporarily when diagnosing specific issues.

### After configuring the desired logging options in the postgresql.conf file, do not forget to reload PostgreSQL to apply the changes.
```sql
pg_ctl reload
```
