## Barman (Backup and Recovery Manager)

#### Barman, also known as Backup and Recovery Manager, is a popular open-source tool used for managing the backup, recovery and disaster recovery of PostgreSQL databases. It provides a simple command-line interface and lets you automate and centrally manage the process of taking backups of PostgreSQL instances. 

Features

### - Remote Backup: Allows performing whole or incremental backups of remote PostgreSQL databases using an SSH connection.
### - Point-in-time Recovery: Supports recovery to a specific point in time, giving the flexibility to restore data according to the needs.
### - Retention Policies: Automatically enforces backup retention policies, allowing dataset optimization for backup storage.
### - Data Compression and Streaming: Offers configurable data compression and streaming of backup files, saving storage space and time.
### - Continuous Archiving: Allows continuous archiving of Write Ahead Log (WAL) files, essential for failover and recovery scenarios.
### - Data Verification and Validation: Verifies and validates backups to ensure a safe and consistent recovery process.
### - Monitoring and Reporting: Provides integrated monitoring and reporting features to have better control and visibility over backup management.

## 1. Installation and Configuration

#### To install Barman, you can use pip, the Python package manager:
```
pip install barman
```
#### After installation, create a dedicated barman user and a configuration file:

```
sudo adduser barman
sudo mkdir /etc/barman.d
sudo chown -R barman:barman /etc/barman.d
```

#### Create a barman.conf configuration file in the /etc/barman.d directory:
```
sudo vi /etc/barman.d/barman.conf
```
#### Add the following sample configuration to configure Barman for a PostgreSQL server:

```
[barman]
barman_user = barman
configuration_files_directory = /etc/barman.d
barman_home = /var/lib/barman
log_file = /var/log/barman/barman.log

[my_pg_server]
description = "My PostgreSQL Server"
conninfo = host=my_pg_server user=postgres dbname=my_dbname
streaming_conninfo = host=my_pg_server user=streaming_barman dbname=my_dbname
backup_method = postgres
wal_level = replica
streaming_archiver = on
slot_name = barman
```

#### Replace my_pg_server, my_dbname, and other necessary details to match your PostgreSQL server.

### 2. Usage

#### Perform a baseline backup using the following command:
```
barman backup my_pg_server
```

#### To recover your PostgreSQL instance, use the barman recover command:
```
barman recover --target-time "2023-11-23 12:00:00" my_pg_server latest /path/to/recovery
```

#### To list all backups, use:
```
barman list-backup my_pg_server
```

#### For more help, consult the Barman documentation or use barman --help.


