## Pg_probackup

### Features

#### Full, Incremental, and Differential Backups: Pg_probackup supports various backup types, giving you the flexibility to choose the best backup strategy for your specific needs.

#### Backup Compression and Encryption: Save storage space and protect sensitive data with built-in support for backup compression and encryption.

### Automatic Restore Point Creation: Pg_probackup creates restore points automatically, so you can easily recover your database to any point in time.

### Backup Catalog and Retention Policies: Manage your backups efficiently with a backup catalog and set up retention policies to automatically delete old backups.

#### Parallel Backup and Recovery: Speed up the backup and recovery process by performing operations in parallel.

#### Validation and Verification: Ensure the accuracy and consistency of your backups and recoveries with built-in validation and verification features.

### Usage

Pg_probackup can be installed by downloading the appropriate package for your operating system or building from the source code available on the official repository.

#### On Debian-based systems, you can install it using apt:
`
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install pg-probackup
`

#### Once installed, you can configure your PostgreSQL instance for backups by setting some configuration parameters in the postgresql.conf file, such as archive_mode, wal_level, and archive_command.

#### You can then start using pg_probackup to create and manage your backups. Here are some basic commands to help you get started:

### - Initialize Backup Catalog
```
pg_probackup init -B /path/to/backup/catalog
```

### - Create Full Backup
```
pg_probackup backup -B /path/to/backup/catalog --instance your_instance_name -b FULL --remote-proto=ssh --remote-host=your_remote_host --remote-port=your_remote_port --remote-path=/path/to/database --remote-user=your_remote_user -U your_pg_user -d your_dbname
```

### - Create Incremental Backup
```
pg_probackup backup -B /path/to/backup/catalog --instance your_instance_name -b PTRACK --remote-proto=ssh --remote-host=your_remote_host --remote-port=your_remote_port --remote-path=/path/to/database --remote-user=your_remote_user -U your_pg_user -d your_dbname
```

### - Restore from Backup
```
pg_probackup restore -B /path/to/backup/catalog --instance your_instance_name -D /path/to/restore/directory
```

