## Prerequisites
### By following these steps, you will have a fully functional PostgreSQL database server up and running on your system.

### `Step 1:` Download and Install PostgreSQL
#### This information has been discussed in the next file. For further details, you can refer to the official PostgreSQL documentation at: https://www.postgresql.org/download/.

### `Step 2:` Configuring PostgreSQL
#### After installing PostgreSQL, you may need to perform some initial configuration tasks in the `postgresql.conf` file.
- #### Open the postgresql.conf with your file editor. You can typically find it in the following location: 
```
Linux: /etc/postgresql/<version>/main/postgresql.conf
```

- #### Make changes to this configuration file as needed, such as changing the default listen_addresses, port or other relevant settings.

- #### Save the changes and restart the PostgreSQL server.

### `Step 3:` Create a Database and User
- #### Open a terminal and run the psql command to connect to the PostgreSQL server as the default postgres user.
```
psql -U postgres
```
- #### Create a new database using the CREATE DATABASE SQL statement. Replace <database_name> with the name of your desired database.

```
CREATE DATABASE <database_name>;
```
- #### Create a new user using the CREATE USER SQL statement. Replace `<username>` and `<password>` with appropriate values.

```
CREATE USER <username> WITH PASSWORD '<password>';
```

- #### Grant the necessary privileges to the new user for your database:

```
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE <database_name> TO <username>;
```

- #### Exit the psql shell with \q.

### `Step 4:` Connecting to the Database
#### You can now connect to your PostgreSQL database using various tools such as:

- #### Command-line utilities like psql;
- #### Programming languages using appropriate libraries
- #### GUI tools such as pgAdmin, DBeaver, or DataGrip.

## You have successfully installed and set up PostgreSQL on your system. Now you can create tables, manage data, and run your applications using PostgreSQL as the backend database server.